Here is a concise introduction to conjugation in the indicative voice.

Regular verbs

Consider first the present tense and the past perfect.  (Past perfect is *completed* action:  "Yesterday, I was hit by lightning ..").

hablar
habl-   o    as     a    amos    an
habl-   é    aste   ó    amos    aron

comer
com-    o    es     e    emos    en
com-    í    iste   ió   imos    ieron

vivir
viv-    o    es     e    imos    en
viv-    í    iste   ió   imos    ieron

-er and -ir are identical except for Nos. in present.

Traditionally, we should include the second person plural, for Vosotros (familiar).  However, this is rarely used now except in some parts of Spain.
--------

Even when verbs are *very* irregular,
most of the irregularity is in the present tense.

estar
        estoy estás   está  estamos están
estuv-  e     iste    o     imos    ieron

haber
        he    has      ha,hay hemos  han
hub-    e     iste     o      imos   ieron

saber
        se    sabes    sabe  sabemos saben
sup-    e     iste     o     imos    ieron

ser
        soy   eres    es    somos   son
        fui   fuiste  fue   fuimos  fueron  

Except for ser, these verbs have the same endings in the past perfect, just with a stem change.
--------

For the other three tenses, all endings are the same regardless of the verb.  These are 

-past imperfect
-conditional
-future

paimp   a     as      a     amos    an
cond    a     as      a     amos    an
fut     é     ás      á     emos    án

These are distinguished from each other, and from the present tense for -ar verbs, by the stem


In the past imperfect -ar, the form is the infinitive + ab.  
Thus:  hablaba, hablabas ...

For -er and -ir verbs, the stem is the infinitive plus  i.
Thus:  comía, comías ...

Ser is also irregular in the past imperfect tense.  It uses e- for the stem.

Thus:  era, eras, era, éramos, eran
(note the accent for Nos.)   
--------

The last two tenses are the conditional and the future.

Again:
cond    a     as      a     amos    an
fut     é     ás      á     emos    án

Future tense is rarely used, but we include it anyway.  (Use instead ir + the verb)

These tenses are all distinguished by the form of the stem.

Conditional:  infinitive + í
Thus:  comería, comerías .. comeríamos

Future:  infinitive + accented vowel (or emos in the case of Nos.)
Thus:  viviré, vivirás .. viviremos






